# SQL-Homework
REAMDE 

Did the prework, created the repository and cloned it into my local, created the EmployeeSQL folder locally and added 6 csv’s and pushed to Github. I didn’t like the ERD that was linked with these instructions, and so after working with that for a while I decided it was more fruitful to at least get the data into pgAdmin.

I created Employee_db and then went about inserting the csv’s. I had some trouble with that, to put it mildly. I knew from the instructions that I was going to have to create a primary key with each of the tables, as well as from class. So I dutifully included it in the first line of each ‘create,’ but little did I know that this would cause issues with importing the csv’s because if the csv table has two lines and the import feature of pgAdmin thinks that it has 3 (because the primary key is the first values) it doesn’t know how to insert 2 columns into 3 columns. So what I had to do was insert some of the values of the table, say like two lines, tell it to print those values and then the import/export tool would magically have the features that were needed. You can go over to the columns tab, and specify which items are to be inserted and which are not null values, and then the import feature would run. 

All the while I had to decided what the particular datatypes were going to be for the columns. Of note, smallint is ONE int off from being able to hold many of the values, ohh and there is a DATE for the birth_date, hire_date which is different from the DATE/TIME function but getting it to print in month/day/year seemed less important then just getting the values. Also I added only 1 to any VARCHAR values and spent too much time trying to figure our the longest intervals for names. Ohh and don’t get me started on ‘sex’ not having an identifier, I looked in gender and how to code gender and then realized that it would work with a check function that looked for the F and M and so keyed it that way.

Range of dates for question 2, >= and <= 1986-01-01 and 1986-12-31 didn’t work, need the BETWEEN function. I need to go back and do the primary keys better, for some reason the diagram doesn’t like my inputs, but I got thru all of the questions. It took a bit of time for the 3rd question, I thought that the nest subqueries needed to have their own SELECT, which after a couple of hours realized that one is unique, you cant have a SELECT inside the subquery, you just need to list all of the columns that you want in the beginning. From there it was easy, go one table into another table by a common value and then JOIN ON such and such parameters with the last ON being the first ON in the next join. The WHERE AND LIKE was interesting, to get the first name Hercules and that you can specify a WHERE after the ON statement to get just Sales departments, or with an OR get the Development department as well. That SQL reference guide was super helpful to get number 8.

I need to go back and redo the values, the integers for the keys and the keys need to have specific names, so like departments, shouldn’t have an id, it should have a deparments_id. Also the names don’t need to be 55 var we talked about it in class about it being the appropriate length but it seems like that isn’t the case for this little micro dataset, certainly applicable to the real world but probably not here;. 

